We have a derivation, our conclusion is R and are two premises are "P AND Q"
and "IF Q THEN R".
Ultimately we'd like to be able to do MODUS PONENS with line 3. But to do MODUS PONENS with line 3,
we need to have Q on a line by itself, and we don't have that right now.
So keep that in mind.
Looking at 2, it's a conjunction. Our new rule SIMPLIFICATION says that when you have a conjunction,
you can break it apart into its two pieces. When we do that we end up with both P on a line by itself,
and Q on a line by itself.
Remember, Q is what we needed
to do MODUS PONENS with line 3, so now we can do that...
And that gets us R
And I have a DIRECT DERIVATION.
Notice that I never used line 4.
So it is possible to make this derivation shorter,
and to only simplify line 2 only once, to get Q.
(mumbles as I notice that I wrote down the wrong line numbers)
And that's fine too.
There are no extra points for creating the shortest possible derivation!
When you have a conjunction, go ahead and simplify and get both parts,
so that you can see what, if anything, you're able to do with them.